[Unknown]: IVM
[Amit Varma]: The most important lesson we learnt about economics in the 20th century was that economies
[Amit Varma]: cannot be centrally planned. They run best when they are decentralized and largely free,
[Amit Varma]: with the state ensuring the rule of law and not much else. Millions of people, without
[Amit Varma]: needing to coordinate with each other, make decisions in their self-interest that have
[Amit Varma]: the effect of leaving everybody better off. This was most famously articulated in Frederick
[Amit Varma]: Hayek's 1945 essay, The Use of Knowledge in Society, though the lesson took decades
[Amit Varma]: to filter down. The Soviet Union eventually collapsed, and even here in India, we eventually
[Amit Varma]: realized that Nehru's vision of a command-and-control planned economy was a flawed one. Our government
[Amit Varma]: stuck to that mindset though, as did our people. That's why every year, the nation tunes in
[Amit Varma]: eagerly to listen to the finance minister summarize the budget for us. To find out what
[Amit Varma]: our rulers, our lords and masters, have planned for us.
[Unknown]: Welcome to The Seen and the Unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics and behavioural
[Unknown]: science. Please welcome your host, Amit Badma.
[Amit Varma]: Welcome to The Seen and the Unseen. Today's episode is about the budget presented by the
[Amit Varma]: Government of India on February 1. But before we get into economics, let's talk art. If
[Amit Varma]: you are an art lover, but like me, find original work from your favourite artists a bit too
[Amit Varma]: heavy on the wallet, head on over to Indiancolors.com, the sponsors of this episode. Indian Colors
[Amit Varma]: is a company that licenses images from top Indian artists and turns their work into objects
[Amit Varma]: of everyday use. Wearables like stoles and kaftans, home décor like cushion covers and
[Amit Varma]: table runners, accessories like tote bags. This allows people like you and me to surround
[Amit Varma]: ourselves with great art at an affordable price. And the artists get royalties on products
[Amit Varma]: sold, just like authors do. Some of the artists whose works you'll find are Dhruvi Acharya,
[Amit Varma]: Sameer Mondal, Vasvox Vaxvo, Brinda Miller, Shruti Nelson and Harin Vakil. Do check it
[Amit Varma]: out at Indiancolors.com, that's Colors with an OU, and use the code IVM20 for a 20% discount.
[Amit Varma]: Remember, IVM20 at Indiancolors.com, Colors with an OU.
[Amit Varma]: Now on with regular programming. I'm the editor of a magazine named Pragati at thinkpragati.com.
[Amit Varma]: And we've had some excellent coverage on our site over the last weekend, even if I say
[Amit Varma]: so myself. My guests today to talk about the budget are staff writers of Pragati, Pawan
[Amit Varma]: Srinath and Pranay Kotasthane, who are joining me remotely from Bengaluru. Pawan Pranay,
[Amit Varma]: welcome to the show.
[Guest]: Thanks, a pleasure to be here.
[Guest]: Thanks Amit, great to be here.
[Amit Varma]: So before, you know, I don't really want to get started on a rant about how the concept
[Amit Varma]: of a budget is so anachronistic and so socialist and, you know, in times when we should really
[Amit Varma]: have moved away from all that. Leaving that aside, Pawan, could I ask you for a moment
[Amit Varma]: to sort of demystify for the listener, what a budget really is? What is the budget? What
[Amit Varma]: is the government doing here?
[Guest]: Amit, the budget is a time where actually the Parliament's power shines through. As
[Guest]: powerful as a government of the day might be, the executive has to table how much it
[Guest]: plans to spend over the next year in front of the Parliament. So therefore, subject itself
[Guest]: to some form of scrutiny and some amount of oxygen and sunlight before it can go about
[Guest]: and do all the nasty things that governments do in their various hidey holes and corners.
[Guest]: So the budget is an exercise where the finance minister comes out and tables what they'll
[Guest]: be doing. And this time, the government of India will be spending about 24.4 lakh crore
[Guest]: rupees, that's 24.4 trillion rupees, that's 18,000 rupees per Indian. And you know, it's
[Guest]: about 12 to 13% of India's GDP. So that's what's on the table.
[Amit Varma]: So help me make some sense of these numbers.
[Guest]: Okay, so let's say that the government of India's budget is 100 rupees. Okay, so that
[Guest]: number is 24.4 trillion right now, which sounds obscenely high. So the, you know, none of
[Guest]: us have human intuition about 24.4 trillion rupees. So supposing it's 100 rupees, the
[Guest]: government makes about 56 to about 60 rupees from tax revenues coming in. This is the government
[Guest]: of India's share of the GST, the government of India's share of income taxes, of a whole
[Guest]: host of taxes. Another 10 to 15 rupees comes from non tax revenues, right? This is when
[Guest]: the government decides to sell off coal, through various auctions, sale of spectrum, or if
[Guest]: the government decides to, you know, divest its share of various national companies that
[Guest]: we have. So altogether, the government makes about, this all adds up to about 70 rupees
[Guest]: roughly. And then you know, there are small things like the recovery of loans, some receipts
[Guest]: and so on. So altogether, the government makes about 74 to 75 rupees, the remaining 25 rupees
[Guest]: is all borrowed. Okay, so that's how the number adds up to 100. And on the spending side,
[Guest]: again, it spends on things on its own. You know, there are core functions of the government
[Guest]: of India, which only it is supposed to do under the constitution like defense, external
[Guest]: affairs and so on. But it also spends on things that state and local governments have to do
[Guest]: from agriculture to health to a lot of other sectors. So all of this expenditure also comes
[Guest]: to about 77 rupees, and the remaining 23 rupees goes back to just paying interest, right.
[Guest]: And so this is something that, you know, if you're a corporation, or an individual, if
[Guest]: you're doing this, it sounds ridiculous, but governments seem to get away with it.
[Amit Varma]: And when sort of, you know, I was following social media today, and there was the and
[Amit Varma]: obviously, we the middle class people on social media, or even better than middle class people
[Amit Varma]: on social media, tend to sort of look at our own interests. And there's been a lot of talk
[Amit Varma]: about this cess and that cess and the cess is constantly going up. I know, it's a pet
[Amit Varma]: peeve of yours, Pranay. Can you tell me a little bit more about the cesses in this budget?
[Amit Varma]: And are they really necessary?
[Guest]: Yeah, Amit, so the government has increased the cess from 3% to 4%. And the cess basically
[Guest]: is a charge, which is levied for a specific purpose. So in this case, the government has
[Guest]: levied increased the surcharge for health and education. So what the government is basically
[Guest]: saying is that, hey, I was not able to spend on health and education earlier. Now, if you
[Guest]: give me more money, and for that, I'm going to introduce this new surcharge and increase
[Guest]: it by 1%. If you give me this money, I will be able to spend it on health and education.
[Guest]: Now, my question is that, wasn't the government supposed to do that in the first place through
[Guest]: the taxes that it has collected? Wasn't the first charge on taxes meant for critical areas
[Guest]: like health and education? So by increasing this cess, the government is admitting that
[Guest]: it was perhaps wasting money on some other things that it was not supposed to. And now
[Guest]: it is forced to introduce a special charge so that it can do things on critical areas
[Guest]: like health and education.
[Amit Varma]: And Pranay, is there actually a way to keep track of whether these cesses are being used
[Amit Varma]: for what they are supposed to be used for? And a sort of a larger question and something
[Amit Varma]: which a lot of people wonder about that, you know, quite apart from the budget being a
[Amit Varma]: statement of accounts once a year, and so on and so forth. Is there any way for taxpayers
[Amit Varma]: to actually and by taxpayers, I don't just mean income taxpayers, every single Indian
[Amit Varma]: is a taxpayer in some way or the other, of taxpayers to kind of keep track of what the
[Guest]: government is doing with their money?
[Guest]: Yeah. So a good source for that is something, there is something called standing committees.
[Guest]: So standing committees are basically parliamentary oversight over the executive. So what happens
[Guest]: is there are very good reports which come out by the standing committee where the parliamentary
[Guest]: committee meets each of these executive departments and tries to take a stock of how was the money
[Guest]: used? How was it utilized? Where was it not spent? So those are good sources to know about
[Guest]: how the money is utilized. Besides that, on specific programs like NREGA or NHM, National
[Guest]: Health Mission, etc., there are dedicated websites where they have tried to put information
[Guest]: about how the money has been utilized over the year. So those are other places where
[Guest]: people can see how the money is being utilized.
[Guest]: Amit, I want to come in here a little. And, you know, money is usually fungible. So when
[Guest]: we talk about cessus and how they're being utilized, the reality of it is that the government
[Guest]: spends on many nasty things, including, say, keeping the Air India afloat or keeping other
[Guest]: public sector units afloat. Now, if the government were actually being honest, maybe they should
[Guest]: call it an Air India cess or keep Air India flying cess and then charge that to the people.
[Guest]: But they don't want to. World over, you have problems where people use a lottery and say
[Guest]: that, yes, this lottery money that the government is running will be kept entirely for education.
[Guest]: But ultimately, all money is fungible.
[Amit Varma]: I think, in fact, there should be a bloated bureaucracy cess. But my next question to
[Amit Varma]: you, Pawan, is when you were sort of deconstructing what the actual budget is, you pointed out
[Amit Varma]: that let's say out of 100 percent, you know, if the budget is 100 rupees, 74 rupees is
[Amit Varma]: actually raised through taxes and blah, blah, blah. And the remaining 25 percent or so is
[Amit Varma]: actually borrowed money, which presumably is a fiscal deficit. How important is a fiscal
[Amit Varma]: deficit? And what does this budget do to address it?
[Guest]: OK, so in context, in India, the financial crisis and the time around the financial crisis
[Guest]: was really bad for the country, not because of the crisis as such, but because of other
[Guest]: things that happened here, which included the universalization of NREGA, the latest
[Guest]: pay commission coming and hitting people, you know, multiple things combined.
[Guest]: What started happening was the government started borrowing about six percent or so
[Guest]: of GDP, rather that the expenditure of the government of India became that much higher
[Guest]: compared to what it was earning. And that became so high.
[Guest]: And once a government starts borrowing so recklessly, the cost of borrowing goes up.
[Guest]: So there are a few market mechanisms by which the governments will have to start feeling
[Guest]: the squeeze. And from around 2011 or so, there has been this long but slow process of trying
[Guest]: to have the government of India borrow slightly less each year, because, you know, bureaucracies
[Guest]: being what they are, it's very hard for governments to just slash funding across the board very
[Guest]: easily. So they've been trying to reduce this over time.
[Guest]: So now the fiscal deficit last year stands between 3.5 and 3.7 percent of GDP. Now, this
[Guest]: again, because it's a small percentage number, it doesn't sound like much, but every one
[Guest]: percent of GDP is about 18 to 19 trillion rupees.
[Guest]: So that's about, you know, 250 something billion dollars or so.
[Guest]: So now when we're talking about this, even 0.1 percent of the fiscal deficit is quite
[Guest]: high. You know, 0.1 percent is 18,000, 19,000 crores, 0.1 percent is 3 billion dollars.
[Guest]: So that's the number that we are playing with. Now, in general, it's not a bad idea to borrow
[Guest]: money if you are trying to invest it in the future, right?
[Guest]: So if, Amit, you were borrowing money because you wanted to invest in an office, invest
[Guest]: in, you know, a setup which would give you a return over many years, you know, somebody
[Guest]: might give you the loan for one. But if you were taking a loan to replace your salary
[Guest]: to take care of day to day expenses, then the bank would laugh at you. Unfortunately,
[Guest]: what's happening in India is that within the fiscal deficit, there is a large revenue deficit,
[Guest]: where the government is not able to meet its revenue, day to day expenditures from salaries
[Guest]: to other things. And that is not being met right now by taxes. So the government of India
[Guest]: is that profligate. Just for context, our state governments are much, much better at
[Guest]: this. They don't run revenue deficits, but surpluses. They by and large borrow to invest.
[Amit Varma]: How are the incentives different?
[Guest]: I think with the state governments, the central government, the union government gets to have
[Guest]: one role. And I think states, by and large, somehow stuck to this discipline a little
[Guest]: better so far. But the central government, look, you have this thing called the Fiscal
[Guest]: Responsibility and Budget Management Act, the FRBM, which tries to bring in some controls
[Guest]: of discipline where, you know, it is not as simple as the government just printing new
[Guest]: notes, but the RBI comes in and steps in a few ways to give it some accountability. But,
[Guest]: you know, this is not yet working as well as it should.
[Amit Varma]: And has this budget taken any steps to making the fiscal deficit less or treating it as
[Amit Varma]: a problem?
[Guest]: No, in fact, it's one of those cases of shifting goalposts. Every year, there is a new reason
[Guest]: for why the fiscal deficit should not get reduced. Right now, I think the talk of it
[Guest]: is how you don't have the private sector investing in the economy because there is a huge amount
[Guest]: of private debt. There is what's called the twin balance sheet problem where, you know,
[Guest]: the banks are indebted, the private sector is indebted. So there is a call for the government
[Guest]: to take that leap forward and invest. Every year, there's some other reason for the governments
[Guest]: to not cut down on spending as much as they should. But that's what usually happens.
[Guest]: Amit, if I can come in, actually, in the last year's budget, the government had said that
[Guest]: it would stick to the 3% fiscal deficit target. But from the revenue estimates which come
[Guest]: in this year's budget, it shows that they have clearly breached that target that they
[Guest]: had set for themselves. And even this year, we can expect that they will not be able to
[Guest]: meet the 3% target, it will, like Pawan said, it will go up to 3.5% or even more. And the
[Guest]: biggest thing that we should realize here is that even today, the single largest component
[Guest]: of government spending is actually on interest payments. So this is interest we are paying
[Guest]: for loans we've accumulated from long back, which means that if this continues, for future
[Guest]: generations, the government will not be able to spend more on things like health and education,
[Guest]: but a greater component will keep going out as interest payments. That's the biggest problem
[Guest]: why we should be very, very wary of what happens to the fiscal deficit number.
[Amit Varma]: And that becomes a bit like a vicious circle. And in a sense, you know, the paradox here
[Amit Varma]: is if you think about the incentives of the politicians involved, the incentive of the
[Amit Varma]: politician is always to win the next election. And a budget is a great opportunity to hand
[Amit Varma]: out SOPs to this sector or that sector, or this group of vote bank, this group of voters
[Amit Varma]: or that vote bank, and so on and so forth. And you know, a fiscal deficit that keeps
[Amit Varma]: growing is essentially a cost that your children have to bear. It's a cost in the future. So
[Amit Varma]: the easiest thing to do, therefore, really, for any government is to kick the can down
[Amit Varma]: the road and, you know, rationalize having a large fiscal deficit in some way or the
[Amit Varma]: other, as Pawan pointed out, and, and just spend a lot on appeasing whoever you're trying
[Guest]: to appease.
[Guest]: Absolutely, Amit. I think the only little discipline that comes in is through various
[Guest]: kinds of ratings of the government. For example, that's why the government of the day is so
[Guest]: concerned about what Moody's has to say about us, because there is a direct influence on
[Guest]: the cost of borrowing. Because every year the government wants to borrow, there is at
[Guest]: least a little bit of sensitivity to the cost of borrowing today. So that injects the tiny
[Guest]: amount of discipline or negative incentive over there. And clearly, that is not sufficient
[Guest]: most of the time.
[Guest]: If I can come in Amit, this is not a problem unique to India, right? But other countries
[Guest]: have tried to fix this problem of profligacy through establishment of something called
[Guest]: fiscal councils, like the US has its own CBOs and budgetary office. And then Australia also
[Guest]: has an arrangement like this. The what they tried to do is this is an independent committee
[Guest]: which tries to keep a track of the promises that government is making. And they try to
[Guest]: come out with estimates to say that, hey, if you have made this promise, do you actually
[Guest]: have the budget for fulfilling this promise or not. And these are reports which are put
[Guest]: out into the public domain, so that people have better information about the promises
[Guest]: being made. And it tries to restrict the government officials from going overboard and promising
[Guest]: things for which money has not been budgeted.
[Amit Varma]: Speaking of promises being made, Pawan, one of the big promises that has been made in
[Amit Varma]: this budget and that everybody is gung-ho about are, you know, the health guarantees,
[Amit Varma]: almost sort of people hyping up a future universal health care and so on. But the actual allocations
[Amit Varma]: in the budget don't reflect the rhetoric of Mr. Jaitley on this.
[Guest]: Yes, and rhetoric gets lapped up so quickly. There are people who are already calling this
[Guest]: Modi care, whereas currently it's a couple of sentences in the budget speech. There's
[Guest]: actually very little reflection even in the budget documents. So this idea of a national
[Guest]: health protection scheme, I think, as Vivek also wrote in Pragati recently, has been bouncing
[Guest]: around for a while. But what the finance minister essentially promised is that, what, 100 million
[Guest]: families, that is about 500 million people, will come under this health insurance net
[Guest]: of some sort, where each family gets a health insurance cover of about five lakh rupees
[Guest]: per year. And this entire thing will be financed by the government of India. And without mentioning
[Guest]: exactly where the money is coming from. As Pranay mentioned earlier, there have been
[Guest]: tweaks with the SES. So an old education and higher education SES has been renamed as an
[Guest]: education and health SES. And this has been increased from 3% to 4%. Now the government
[Guest]: estimates an extra 11,000 crores coming in. With 11,000 crores, you can do nothing. With
[Guest]: 11,000 crores, you're essentially allocating 1,100 rupees per family. And you tell me what
[Guest]: kind of insurance, health insurance can be available for a full family for just 1,100
[Guest]: rupees a year. With whatever economies of scale working, they're just much, much smaller
[Guest]: than what private health insurance costs are in India today. So again, this is a case where
[Guest]: if India had an independent fiscal council of some sort, they would have fizzed this
[Guest]: themselves. But sitting outside, it's harder to do these estimations on behalf of the government.
[Guest]: But it's clear that a scheme as grand as this, while perhaps necessary, given that so many
[Guest]: Indians spend for health care out of pocket and often, as a result, slip back into poverty.
[Guest]: It's just not going to take off because the monies for it are not guaranteed.
[Amit Varma]: Pranay, one of the balancing acts that a budget often has to pull off is that on the one hand,
[Amit Varma]: it's supposed to be a sign of good governance. But on the other hand, the government in power
[Amit Varma]: is often more concerned with optics than with governance, especially with elections coming
[Amit Varma]: up as it happened to be. And this has been a constant criticism of the Modi government
[Amit Varma]: and even I've made it in the past that they care more about optics and governance. Where
[Amit Varma]: does this budget fall on that, you know, on that difficult question of balancing these?
[Guest]: Yeah, I think one of the good things that the budget did was basically, finally, there
[Guest]: is a realisation that the government's business is not to be in business. So they are sort
[Guest]: of trying to get do more of divestment. And they have listed up 24 companies which they
[Guest]: plan to divest. So that is sort of trying to reset the balance and earn more revenue
[Guest]: for the government without taxing people. So that if this gets done, and it will be
[Guest]: again a politically sensitive move, it would be a move in the right direction.
[Guest]: So but one of the things that is there in almost every budget speech, and it doesn't
[Guest]: really matter which government it is, this government is quite guilty, is that grand
[Guest]: announcements are made, and the budgetary allocations of it are nowhere near enough.
[Guest]: So one of the announcements made along with this National Health Protection Scheme was
[Guest]: a case where the government said that they will start 1.5 lakh wellness centres across
[Guest]: the country, right. So these are not just primary health centres, but they'll help you
[Guest]: with diagnostics, primary health, tertiary health, all kinds of magical things. But for
[Guest]: the entire thing, the government has allocated an amount which translates to 80,000 rupees
[Guest]: per centre. Nothing is possible with 80,000, probably they can build the building and keep
[Guest]: the electricity on and that's about maybe put one person there. And that's all that's
[Guest]: possible. And this is just one example. There's another where the government talks about,
[Guest]: you know, how there are these rural hearts of some sort, which should be transformed
[Guest]: into Grameen Agricultural Markets, whereby, you know, farmers don't have to go 100 kilometres
[Guest]: away or so to sell their wares at an ATMC, but can sell locally. But for these 22,000
[Guest]: Grameen Agricultural Markets, there is a corpus fund of 200 crores that will be set up. Now,
[Guest]: this is a corpus and you're taking interest on it, you're talking about just 200 crores,
[Guest]: and you want to use that for 20 plus thousand things. So you're talking about a couple of
[Guest]: thousand rupees that you can spend per market. So it's these kinds of numbers that beggar
[Guest]: our belief and you know, they just don't add up.
[Amit Varma]: And you know, Pranay, one of the points you made in the past, and you've written about
[Amit Varma]: this for Pragati as well, is, you know, one of your pet suggestions is that the government
[Amit Varma]: should just have 10 centrally sponsored schemes and not the vast numbers that they do now.
[Amit Varma]: Can you elaborate a little bit on that? And has this budget done anything to address that?
[Guest]: Yeah, Amit, the budget has not done anything to address that. Actually, with this National
[Guest]: Health Protection Scheme, in fact, there will be increase in the number of centrally sponsored
[Guest]: schemes. Why I tried to argue for that was because, see, the constitutional responsibility
[Guest]: for most of the social sector expenditure actually lies with the states, by which it
[Guest]: is meant that for anything to do on health or on education, the union government has
[Guest]: to collaborate with the states. Okay, so even when the union government allots some money,
[Guest]: it actually first goes to the states and then the state governments implement it. So my
[Guest]: point was that if state governments are responsible for most of the social sector expenditure,
[Guest]: isn't it better that the union government just gives a lot of money in the form of cash
[Guest]: to these state governments, and then the state governments decide based on their priorities
[Guest]: and their preferences where to invest. And this would require government, the union government
[Guest]: to actually reduce the number of centrally sponsored schemes, where it tries to direct
[Guest]: that, hey, you should only spend money in this area or not spend in that area. Instead
[Guest]: of that, the union government can consolidate the expenditure into a couple of areas, health,
[Guest]: education, defence, etc. and leave the rest of the expenditure as money for the states
[Guest]: to invest based on their own priorities. So let me wrap it up by asking two questions
[Amit Varma]: to each of you. The same two questions, Pawan, you go first, which is that, in what ways
[Amit Varma]: has this budget made you happy and disappointed you? That's the first question. And the second
[Amit Varma]: one is what would you do differently, not in terms of specifics, but in broader directional
[Guest]: terms? I mean, I really don't know how to be happy at the end of a budget. Sometimes
[Guest]: the noise seems right, the sound seem right, but you don't really see them backed up with
[Guest]: the right kind of numbers. And really, after you see a few budgets, there's like a tyranny
[Guest]: of low expectations, you know, so it can be bad, or it can be truly abysmal and horrible.
[Guest]: And there's really nothing else. In terms of what I would recommend would be done differently,
[Guest]: is we need to fundamentally reform the budgeting system and process. It's high time that the
[Guest]: Government of India not adopt standards that, you know, it imposes on the rest of us, we
[Guest]: need accrual accounting. The government thing is not just about cash coming in and going
[Guest]: out, but about assets and liabilities that the government has, and how best it's utilizing
[Guest]: them and how best it's managing them. So I think we need to go beyond just this cash
[Guest]: accounting that we have and talk about, you know, the Indian state or the country of India
[Guest]: has a certain amount of wealth, some portion of it is owned by the government, the India
[Guest]: as a society has debts too, and some of it is with the government. And we really need
[Guest]: to be starting to talk and think about that rather than, is it 24.4 lakh crores or 25.
[Guest]: Pranay?
[Guest]: Yeah, Amit, I think one thing that disappointed me was basically, the elephant in the room
[Guest]: really is the lack of jobs in India. And I don't think there's enough in the budget where
[Guest]: things are being done to see this as an emergency right now. So the way the government is trying
[Guest]: to do things is saying that we will increase customs duties on electronics, and they explicitly
[Guest]: say that this will increase jobs, because our industries will become more competitive.
[Guest]: Now, this is good old style import substitution. And this is in no way going to increase jobs.
[Guest]: In fact, it is going to hurt our industries, because we anyways import things from outside,
[Guest]: we don't produce some of the things which go into electronics. So these are small things
[Guest]: which the government is trying to do and say that doing such things will help us increase
[Guest]: jobs. But the bigger question of increasing economic growth, facilitating smaller companies
[Guest]: to grow such that and also creating bigger companies so that they can provide jobs at
[Guest]: a larger scale, are things that are still left untouched. So that is sort of disappointing.
[Guest]: And if I were given a chance, as I said, I would just reduce the number of schemes that
[Guest]: the government of India runs and give a lot more freedom to the states in implementing
[Guest]: these government expenditures.
[Guest]: You know, if I can go one step from what Pranay said, I think it's time to end a lot of government
[Guest]: of India departments. India does not need a Ministry of Health, we don't really need
[Guest]: a Ministry of Human Resource Development. We might need other centres, other bodies
[Guest]: there instead of those ministries, but they're not necessary.
[Amit Varma]: Absolutely. And to cycle back to what you said earlier, Pranay, that supposing you expected
[Amit Varma]: the government to signal its concern for the jobs crisis that is already upon us, what
[Amit Varma]: could it have done differently in this budget?
[Guest]: Amit, the thing that could be done differently is basically reforming the factor markets,
[Guest]: basically changing how land, labour etc. can exchange hands is the big deal here. And that
[Guest]: has been written about ad nauseum by lots of people about how India needs to reform
[Guest]: these factor markets. Unless that is done, we are only talking about tweaking at the
[Guest]: margins and we'll not be able to create jobs at a bigger scale.
[Guest]: Thanks a lot for coming on the show, guys.
[Guest]: Thank you.
[Amit Varma]: Thanks, Amit.
[Amit Varma]: Thanks, Pranay.
[Unknown]: He bends down to test the warm water for his bath. He comes here to quench his thirst for
[Unknown]: a hot shower and some podcasts. You can witness how he enjoys having other people talk about
[Unknown]: cool stuff in his bathroom. Indeed, it helps him with his loneliness. You can find more
[Unknown]: of his species on ivmpodcast.com, your one-stop destination where you can check out the coolest
[Unknown]: Indian podcasts. Happy listening.